# 6.1: Creating a ROS 2 Workspace

## What is a Workspace?

A ROS 2 workspace is a directory containing ROS 2 packages. When you are developing with ROS 2, you will typically work in a workspace. The ROS 2 build tools, such as `colcon`, are designed to work with workspaces.

A workspace contains several subdirectories:

*   **src:** This is where you will put the source code for your ROS 2 packages.
*   **build:** This is where `colcon` will put intermediate build files.
*   **install:** This is where `colcon` will install the built packages.
*   **log:** This is where `colcon` will store log files.

## Creating a Workspace

To create a new workspace, you can simply create a new directory:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/ros2_ws/src
cd ~/ros2_ws
```

This creates a new directory called `ros2_ws` and a subdirectory called `src`.

## Building a Workspace

To build the packages in a workspace, you can use the `colcon build` command. You should run this command from the root of your workspace:

```bash
cd ~/ros2_ws
colcon build
```

`colcon` will find all the ROS 2 packages in the `src` directory and build them. The build artifacts will be placed in the `build` and `install` directories.

## Sourcing the Workspace

After building a workspace, you need to source the `setup.bash` file in the `install` directory. This will add the workspace to your ROS 2 environment, so that you can use the packages that you have built.

```bash
source ~/ros2_ws/install/setup.bash
```

It is a good idea to add this command to your `~/.bashrc` file, so that the workspace is automatically sourced every time you open a new terminal.
