# 7.2: SDF Basics

## What is SDF?

SDF stands for Simulation Description Format. It is an XML format for describing robots, as well as the environment in which they operate. SDF is the format used by the Gazebo simulator.

SDF is a superset of URDF. It includes all the features of URDF, plus additional features for describing simulation-specific properties, such as:

*   **Physics properties:** Friction, damping, and other physics-related properties.
*   **Sensor properties:** The properties of simulated sensors, such as cameras, LiDARs, and IMUs.
*   **Lighting and environment:** The lighting, sky, and other properties of the simulated world.
*   **Plugins:** The ability to add custom functionality to the simulation using plugins.

## SDF vs. URDF

While URDF is primarily used for describing the kinematics and visual appearance of a single robot, SDF is a more comprehensive format that can describe an entire simulated world, including multiple robots, static objects, and environmental conditions.

If you are working with the Gazebo simulator, you will need to use SDF. However, it is often convenient to maintain a URDF model of your robot and then convert it to SDF for simulation. ROS provides tools for converting between URdf and SDF.

## Example SDF

Here is an example of a simple SDF file that defines a box:

```xml
<?xml version='1.0'?>
<sdf version='1.6'>
  <model name='my_box'>
    <pose>0 0 0.5 0 0 0</pose>
    <link name='link'>
      <collision name='collision'>
        <geometry>
          <box>
            <size>1 1 1</size>
          </box>
        </geometry>
      </collision>
      <visual name='visual'>
        <geometry>
          <box>
            <size>1 1 1</size>
          </box>
        </geometry>
      </visual>
    </link>
  </model>
</sdf>
```
